tomato:
Tomatoes are a warm-season crop and are usually grown as summer annuals. Tomato seeds must be started indoors 
 between March to June

chilli:
Chillies can be grown both as Kharif and Rabi crop. In addition they are also planted at other times. Sowing months are 
May to June for Kharif crop, September to October for Rabi crops. If they are grown as summer crops then 
January-February months are chosen.

bean:
The ideal time to grow beans is around March or April. Planting them too late may not give them proper time to grow and 
get ready for the harvesting season

carrot:
Carrots grow best in cool temperatures of early spring and late fall.

cucumber:
Cucumber is cultivated both as summer and rainy season crop. Summer crop: January to February Rainy season crop: 
June to July In hills of Meghalaya the seeds are sown in April.

bitter gourd:
 The best season to plant bitter gourd is Jan to March and Sept to Dec months

brinjal:
brinjal can be grown round the year, the main sowing being done during July to August.

Cabbage:
Early cabbage is sown during July-November in plains and April-August in hills, as these require a 
longer period for their head formation

Cauliflower:
For spring-planted cauliflower, it is best to plant in early to mid- April

Lady finger:
Lady finger is an important vegetable crop of srilanka. It is grown in kharif (June-August) 
and Zaid (January-March) season.

lemon :
The best season of lemon planting is done from June to August

Mushroom :
because many basements of Mushroom  will get too warm in the summer for ideal conditions.

onion:
Feb to April ,May to June, Sept to Oct.

pepper:
pepper grown in May to June. 
It takes 6 to 8 months from flowering to ripening stage

Potato:
potato Being a rabi season crop, it is usually cultivated during the months from October to December

Pumpkin:
The best time to plant pumpkin seeds is by late May to early July

Radish:
Plant radish seeds from early April through early May for a spring crop, and again August 1 through
September 1 for a fall crop.

Snake Gourd:
Snake Gourd is suitable for around the year.
July and January are highly suitable for cultivation





















