

1)Cool-season crops
Cabbage
Potatoes
Carrots
Beets
Cauliflower
Radishes
Leeks
 Garlic
corn

2)Warm-season crops
Cucumbers
Peppers
Pumpkins
potatoes
beans
Tomatoes
chilli

3)tips for tomato planting
Plant your tomato plants deeper than they come in the pot, all the way up to the top few leaves.
When planted this way, tomatoes are able to develop roots all along their stems. And more roots 
make for a stronger plant. You can either dig a deep hole or simply dig a shallow trench and lay 
the plant sideways.

4)beans 
Cover the seeds with sand, peat, vermiculite or aged compost to prevent soil crusting. Plant bush 
bean seeds 2-4 inches (5-10 cm.) apart in rows that are 2-3 feet (61-91 cm.) apart and plant pole 
beans in either rows or hills with seeds 6-10 inches (15-25 cm.)

5)carrot
Fertilize the soil with one cup of 10-20-10 for every 10 feet of row you plant. You can use a rake to
mix the soil and fertilizer. Plant your carrots in rows that are one to two feet apart is the best way 
how to grow carrots. Seeds should be planted about a  half  inch deep and 1 – 2 inches apart.

6)cucumber

Cucumbers like warm, humid weather; loose, organic soil; and plenty of sunlight. They grow well
in most areas of the United States and do especially well in southern regions. When planting
cucumbers, choose a site that has adequate drainage and fertile 

7)Potatoes 
Potatoes always do best in full sun. They are aggressively rooting plants, and we find that they 
will produce the best crop when planted in a light, loose, well-drained soil. Potatoes prefer a 
slightly acid soil with a PH of 5.0 to 7.0.

8) BeetRoots 
Pre-soak seeds to increase germination rates, and plant each seed 1 inch deep and 2-4 inches apart.
Thin when beet seedlings are 2-3 inches tall.
Thin carefully and transplant extra seedlings or use as greens in salad.
Plant seeds every few weeks for a continual harvest.

9)Pumpkin 
Choose a sunny spot with well drained soil
Form small mounds of soil and space 1m apart
As seedlings grow, thin to the two strongest plants in each mound
Water when the soil is dry, particularly in hot or windy weather
Pinch out ends of rambling stems to help contain growth.

10) mushrooms 
STEP 1: Add the spores to the growing medium. The first step is to set up the substrate, or growing medium
STEP 2: Make sure the soil is moist all the time
STEP 3: Incubate the spores
STEP 4: Lower the temperature to between 55 and 60 degrees
STEP 5: Harvest the mushrooms and enjoy

11)Peppers
Plant them 18 to 24 inches apart in a sunny, well-drained spot. Pepper plants need at least
6-8 hours of sunlight per day. Mix compost or other organic matter into the soil when planting. 
Water immediately after planting, then regularly throughout the season.

12) onions 
Plant onions in early spring once the ground is workable. In-ground gardens and raised beds are
both excellent options for growing onions. Space onion plants 6 inches apart in rows that are 12 
inches apart. Grow them in a sunny spot that has fertile, well-drained soil with a pH of 6.0 to 6.8.

13)tomato
More Sun Equals More Fruit. Choose your sunniest garden spot, because tomatoes soak up 
sunshine just like water. ...
Beef up the Soil. ...
Timing Is Everything. ...
Plant Deeply. ...
Invite Friends to the Party. ...
Water Deeply and Mulch, Mulch, Mulch. ...
Offer a Cup of (Compost) Tea. ...
Pruning Is for Suckers.

14)radish 
Sow radish seeds one inch apart in rows one foot apart in loosened soil. Cover them 1/2 to 
1-inch deep and water them gently. Keep planting radishes every ten days for a continuous 
harvest. One week after the radish seedlings appear, thin them to every two or three inches

15)cabbage
Start seeds indoors. With some plants, you can plant their seeds right outside. ...
Provide nitrogen-rich soil. Cabbages love nitrogen! ...
Water plants often
Provide adequate space
Avoid planting near relatives
Check before you harvest.

16)ladies finger

To grow Okra, sow the seeds 7-8 inches apart and  half inches deep. If you're planning to grow 
okra indoors and transplanting them later, be sure to space them 9 to 10 inches apart. 
Handle the seedlings very carefully as they're delicate and can be easily damaged. 
Dig a hole deep enough to hold the entire root balls.

17)brinjal
They need fertile, well-drained soil. They can be grown from seed sown directly in the ground, 
but because they take a long time to fruit, speed up the process by growing them in trays four 
weeks before planting time, then plant the seeds when the ground warms up. Seeds will take 
about 2-3 weeks to germinate.


18)bitter gourd
Bitter gourds require a very hot and humid climate to grow well. Plant bitter gourd seeds in 
a location that gets 6 to 8 hours of sunlight everyday. Seeds will take 8 to 10 days to 
germinate in soil temperatures ranging from 15 to 20℃. Bitter gourds will take almost 55-60 days 
to mature.

19)Corn
Start with fresh corn seeds for the best results.
Directly sow seeds approximately 1.5 to 2 inches deep and 4 to 6 inches apart.
Cover with soil, space your rows of seeds 30 to 36 inches apart.
Water your block of corn well after planting.
Corn stalks are sturdy and should not need staking.

20)Snake Gourd
Like most squash, snake gourd is a summer vegetable and needs warm soil and nighttime 
temperatures. Using a raised red or mounding your soil above ground level helps raise the 
soil temperature. And waiting until temperatures stay above 50 degrees F through the night 
can keep your squash plants healthy and thriving

21)chilli
Choose a warm, sunny spot
Prepare your soil with organic matter like compost and sheep pellets.
Add a layer of vegetable mix to plant into.
Feed your chillies regularly and keep the soil moist throughout the growing season.
Stake taller plants and those grown in wind-prone areas.

22)cauliflower

Plant cauliflower in rows with each plant spaced 18 inches apart. Rows should be 30 inches apart.
 Improve your native soil by mixing in several inches of compost or other rich organic matter.
 Add a 3-inch layer of mulch and give plants 1 to 1.5 inches of water weekly.

23)leaks
Leeks need a sunny, sheltered site with well-drained, well prepared soil with plenty of added 
manure or fertiliser. To plant the traditional way, make a hole with a dibber, 20cm deep,
 drop a seedling in and water in. This method, called 'puddling in' will produce large single 
leeks with well-blanched stems



























